# Predicting the nature of Graphene Environment based on Raman spectroscopy data and Deep Learning
Raman Spectroscopy is a non-destructive chemical analysis technique which provides detailed information about chemical structure, phase and polymorphy, crystallinity and molecular interactions. It is based upon the interaction of light with the chemical bonds within a material. Here in this project the impact of environment on graphene properties, basically charge density and dielectric environment conditions are studied. These environmental interactions are difficult to minutely predict in laboratory conditions manually. The collected spectroscopic data vary due to different experimental setups and environments. Such variations, artifacts, and environmental differences pose a challenge in accurate spectral analysis. A deep learning approach to the problem is best suited to manipulate the condition at microscopic level with utmost accuracy. To improve the accuracy data augmentation was used through additive noise and peak shifting. The implemented CNN model is able to classify Raman spectra of graphene with 99% accuracy. This type of approach as the potential for fast and reliable estimation of graphene doping levels and dielectric environments. The proposed model paves the way for achieving efficient analytical tools to evaluate the properties of graphene.

The datasets and codes are uploaded in the repository. For detailed report or any kind of help contact me at soumyajits2000@gmail.com
